______
Title: Chicken and Quinoa Soup
Bean: Get Quinoa from The Bean Basket
Time: 35 mins Servings: 4
Ingredients:
1 tablespoon extra-virgin olive oil
1 medium, sliced onion
3 stalks of chopped celery
2 cups roughly chopped carrots
1 teaspoon Cajun seasoning, plus one more for topping
1 cup quinoa
1 quart fat-free low sodium chicken broth
Kosher salt and freshly ground pepper
2 cups chopped broccoli florets
2 1/2 cups shredded rotisserie chicken (white meat only), skin removed
2 tablespoons low-fat sour cream
Instructions:
1. Heat the olive oil in a large pot over medium-high heat. Add the onion, celery, carrots and Cajun seasoning and cook, stirring occasionally, until the vegetables are slightly soft, about 4 minutes.
2. Stir in the quinoa, then add the chicken broth, 3 cups water, 1/2 teaspoon salt, and pepper to taste. Partially cover and bring to a simmer, then reduce the heat to medium and cook until the quinoa starts to soften, about 12 minutes. Add broccoli and cook, uncovered, until just tender, about 5 minutes. Add the chicken and stir to warm through. Season with salt and pepper.
3. Ladle the soup into bowls. Top with the sour cream and Cajun seasoning.
______
Title: Chocolate Peanut Butter Overnight Oats
Bean: Get Oats, Chia seeds from The Bean Basket
Time: 2 mins Servings:1 Large serving or 2 small
Ingredients:
1/3 cup plain Greek yogurt
1/2 cup (heaping) rolled oats
2/3 cup unsweetened milk of choice
1 tablespoon chia seeds or ground flax meal
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
2 tablespoons natural peanut butter
2 tablespoons unsweetened cocoa powder
pinch of salt
0-2 tablespoons honey or maple syrup
Instructions:
1. Whisk together all ingredients in a medium-sized mixing bowl. Spoon into a jar with a tight-fitting lid.
2. Close and refrigerate for at least 4 hours, but preferably overnight before eating.
______
Title: Buttery White Rice
Bean: Get White rice from The Bean Basket
Time: 50 mins Servings: 2-3 servings
Ingredients:
1 cup rice
2~3 cups water
1 tablespoon margarine or butter
Salt to taste
Instructions:
1. Measure rice, and add to pot.
2. Add water to pot. (If you want harder rice put 2 cups, if you want softer rice put 3. Do whatever works for you!)
3. Add margarine or butter, and then add salt to taste.
4. Let it boil. Then, cover the pot with lid.
5. Reduce the heat to medium.
6. After about 15 min, turn the heat off, and leave it covered an additional 10 minutes. Do NOT open the lid at this point.
7. After 10 minutes of 6, the rice should be cooked with some hole between them.
8. Serve and enjoy! Use as a side dish.
*Recommended with chiles rellenos to go with rice!
______
Title: Mexican Brown Rice Salad
Bean: Get Brown Rice from The Bean Basket
Time: 30mins Servings: 6 to 8 servings
Ingredients: 
2 ears corn, husked
3 +extra tablespoons olive oil (extra for brushing)
1 cup cooked brown rice
2 (15-ounce) cans pinto beans, drained and rinsed
1 red bell pepper, seeded and finely chopped
1 bunch green onions, sliced
1 small jalapeno, seeds and rib removed diced juice of 1 lime
1 teaspoon cumin
1 clove garlic, finely chopped
3 tablespoons chopped fresh cilantro
Kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper
1 cup crumbled queso fresco or feta cheese
Instructions: 
1. Preheat the grill to medium-high heat.
2. Brush corn with olive oil, and season with salt and pepper. Grill for 5 to 6 minutes, rotating on all sides, until the corn has some nice charred spots. Let cool and remove corn kernels from the cob.
3. Add corn, brown rice, beans, red bell pepper, jalapeno, and green onions to a large bowl.
4. In a smaller bowl, whisk together the olive oil, lime juice, cumin, garlic, cilantro, and salt and pepper. Fold dressing into the veggies and top with the crumbled cheese and toss.
______
Title: Sugar Cookies
Bean: Get sugar and all-purpose flour from The Bean Basket
Time: 25 minutes Servings: 10
Ingredients:
2 3/4 cups all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon baking powder
1 cup butter, softened
1 1/2 cups white sugar
1 egg
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
Instructions:
1. Preheat oven to 375°F (190°C). In a small bowl, stir together flour, baking soda, and baking powder. Set aside.
2. In a large bowl, cream together the butter and sugar until smooth. Beat in egg and vanilla. Gradually blend in the dry ingredients. Roll rounded teaspoonfuls of dough into balls, and place onto ungreased cookie sheets.
3. Bake 8 to 10 minutes in the preheated oven, or until golden. Let stand on cookie sheet two minutes before removing to cool on wire racks. *Tip: aluminum foil can be used to keep food moist, cook it evenly, and make clean-up easier.
______
Title: Brown Sugar-Glazed Carrots
Bean: Get Brown Sugar from The Bean Basket
Time: 30 mins Servings: 8
Ingredients:
2 pounds carrots, cut into
1/4-inch slices (12 to 14 medium)
1/2 teaspoon salt, if desired
2/3 cup packed brown sugar
1/4 cup butter or margarine
1 teaspoon grated orange peel
1/2 teaspoon salt
Instructions:
1. Heat 1 inch mater to boiling in 3-quart saucepan. Add carrots and, if desired, 1/2 teaspoon salt. Cover and heat to boiling, reduce heat. Simmer covered 12 to 15 minutes or until carrots are tender.
2. While carrots are cooking, heat brown sugar, butter orange peel and 1/2 teaspoon salt in 10to 12inch skillet over medium heat, stirring constantly, until sugar is dissolved and mixture is bubbly. Be careful not to overcook or the mixture will taste scorched. Remove from heat.
3. Drain carrots. Stir carrots into brown sugar mixture. Cook over low heat about 5 minutes, stirring occasionally and gently, until carrots are glazed and hot.
______
Title: Banana Chocolate Chip Muffins
Bean: Get Sugar, Baking soda, Walnut, Flour from The Bean Basket
Time: 35 mins Servings: 12 muffins
Ingredients:
3 medium very ripe bananas
1 egg
1/3 cup milk
1/2 cup granulated sugar
1/2 cup brown sugar
1 1/2 cups flour
1 tablespoon baking soda
1 teaspoon salt
2-3 tablespoons chocolate chips
(2 tablespoons chopped walnuts)from The
Instructions:
1. Preheat oven to 350°F
2. Lightly coat 12 muffin tin liners with cooking spray and place in muffin tin.
3. In large bowl, mash bananas fork.
4. Whisk in egg, milk, granulated sugar, and brown sugar.
5. In separate bowl, combine flour, baking soda, and salt.
6. Add flour mixture to banana mixture and combine well.
7. Fold in chocolate chips and walnuts. (Walnuts are optional)
8. Spoon equal amounts of batter into 12 muffin cups.
9. Bake 20 minutes or until toothpick inserted in center comes out clean.
10. Allow to cool slightly in pan, then remove to wire rack.
______ Title: Easy and Fast Bread
Bean: Get Baking Powder and Flower from The Bean Basket
Time: 50 mins Servings: 8 breads
Ingredients:
1 1/2 cups bread flour
1 1/2 cups whole wheat flour
3 teaspoons baking powder
1 1/4 teaspoons salt
1 cup water
1 tablespoon vegetable oil
Instructions:
1. Combine flour, salt and baking powder.
2. Stir in water and oil until everything comes together to form a dough.
3. Shape the dough into your favorite sizes and forms. Optionally spray with water before putting into the oven.
4. Bake at 400°F for app. 20 minutes for small breads and app. 40 minutes for large breads. (It is done when the color is right and the internal temperature reaches 175°F. If the color is getting too dark, cover with foil.)
______
Title: Almond Pound Cake
Bean: Get almond, white sugar, and all-purpose flour from The Bean Basket
Time: 2 hours Servings: 12
Ingredients:
1 cup butter, softened
2 cups white sugar
6 eggs, room temperature
1 3/4 cups all-purpose flour
1/2 teaspoon salt
2 teaspoons almond extract
8 ounces almond paste
1 cup confectioners’
4 tablespoons milk
1/2 cup blanched almonds
4 drops red food coloring
4 drops green food coloring
Instructions:
1. preheat oven to 325°F. Grease and flour a 10 inch Bundt pan.
2. In a large bowl, cream butter and sugar together until we mixed with an electric mixer. Add eggs, one at a time, and beat until mixture is light and fluffy. Blend in flour and salt. Mix in almond extract. Turn batter into prepared pan.
3. Bake for 60 minutes, or until toothpick when inserted in the center of the cake comes out clean. Cool in pan for 10 minutes. Remove from pan, and transfer to a wire rack to continue cooling.
4. Break off tablespoon-sized pieces of the almond paste, and shape into holly leaves. Using the tip of a knife, score the shaped holly leaf to resemble veins in the leaves. Mix green food coloring with a small amount of water and brush the holly leaves, repeating until desired color is reached. Set aside on waxed paper. Break off 2 tablespoons of almond paste is a bright red, break off smaller pieces. Roll into balls to resemble holly berries. Place on waxed paper.
5. In a small bowl, combine 1 cup confectioners’ sugar and milk. Mix until smooth. When the cake has cooled, drizzle with the confectioners’ sugar glaze. Top with blanched almonds, and garnish with the marzipan holy leaves and berries.
______
Title: Granola Dark Chocolate Bark
Bean: Get Granola, brown sugar, dried cranberries, cashews from The Bean Basket
Time: 1hour 50minutes Servings:20
Ingredients:
1/2 cup butter, melted
1/4 cup packed brown sugar
1/2 teaspoon fine sea salt
1/4 ground ginger
1/8 teaspoon cayenne pepper
3 cups multi grain cereal squares
2 cups granola 
2 tablespoons sesame seeds
TK cup melted dark chocolate
1 1/2 cups roasted and salted cashews
1 cup chopped dried apricots
1 cup dried cranberries
Flaky sea salt, for garnish
Instructions:
1. Heat oven to 250°F. line a rimmed 17x12” baking sheet with parchment paper.
2. In a small bowl, mix together melted butter, brown sugar, syrup, salt, ginger, and cayenne until combined.
3. Place cereal in a large bowl and pour butter mixture. Stir to coat well.
4. Add granola and sesame seeds; mix gently to combine. Spread over prepared baking sheet and bake 1 hour, stirring every 15 minutes. Cool completely, about 30 minutes, then carefully loosen from parchment paper and break into pieces.
5. Line baking sheet with new parchment paper and pour over melted dark chocolate. Sprinkle with snack mix, cashews, apricots and
cranberries and refrigerate until firm, 1 hour.
6. Sprinkle with sea salt and serve. (store in airtight container.)
______
Title: Carrot Muffins with Raisins and Dried Pineapple
Bean: Get Dried Pineapple, whole wheat flour, all-purpose flour, baking soda, ground cinnamon from The Bean Basket
Time: 45 mins Servings: 18 muffins
Ingredients:
3 eggs
3/4 cup buttermilk
3/4 cup oil or canola oil (good)
1 cup honey
1 teaspoon vanilla
3 cups grated carrots
1 cup raisins
1/2 cup chopped pecans
3/4 cup chopped dried pineapple
1 cup whole wheat flour
1 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
2 teaspoons baking soda
2 teaspoons ground cinnamon
1/2 teaspoon salt
Instructions:
1. Preheat the oven to 375°F. Grease 18 muffins cup, set aside.
2. In a large bowl, beat the eggs. Add buttermilk, oil, honey and vanilla and mix together until well blended.
3. With a wooden spoon, stir in the carrots, raisins, pecans and pineapple.
4. In a small bowl, mix together the flours, baking soda, cinnamon and salt. Gently fold the dry ingredients into the carrot mixture and mix until just blended (donʼt overmix).
5. Spoon the batter into the muffin cups, filing to the top.
6. Bake for 25 minutes, or until the muffins spring back when lightly pressed.
______
Title: Chocolate Chunk Blondies
Bean: Get in all-purpose flour, baking powder, brown sugar, white sugar, chocolate at The Bean Basket
Time: 40mins Servings: 20
Ingredients:
2 cups all-purpose flour
1 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
1 teaspoon salt
12 tablespoons unsalted butter melted, plus more for the pan
1 1/4 cups light brown sugar
1/2 cup granulated sugar
2 eggs
1 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
2 1/2 dark chocolate, chopped into small pieces
1 cup walnuts, lightly toasted and chopped 
Instructions:
1. Preheat oven to 350°F. Lightly butter a 9” x 13” baking pan.
2. Whisk together the flour, baking powder and salt.
3. In a small saucepan, melt butter, then whisk in both sugars, eggs, and vanilla.
4. Stir butter mixture into flour mixture until nearly combined, then add the chocolate (and nuts). Stir until just evenly mixed.
5. Use a spatula to spread evenly in prepared baking pan.
6. Bake until the edges are golden, about 23-25 minutes. Cool on a rack before cutting into squares.
______
Title: How to Cook Dried Chickpeas
Bean: Get chickpeas at The Bean Basket
Time: variable Servings: variable
Ingredients:
1 lb. dried beans
10 cups water
Instructions: 
Method 1: Long soak and simmer
1. Look through the dried beans and pick out anything that doesn’t look like a bean. (Sometimes a rock or something else from the bulk aisle sneaks in)
2. Add beans to a large bowl and cover with several inches of water. As the beans rehydrate, they triple in size – key is to add plenty of water. Soak the beans 8 hours or overnight.
3. After soaking the beans, drain and rinse the beans well. Add them to a large pot, cover the beans with several inches of water, and bring everything to a boil.
4. Reduce the heat and simmer until they reach your desired tenderness, 1-1/2 to 2 hours.
5. You can add some salt, but only add salt towards the end of cooking. (Around when 30 minutes left)
Method 2: Quick soak and simmer
1. Look through the dried beans and pick out anything that doesn’t look like a bean.
2. Add the beans to a large pot, cover with several inches of water and bring to a boil.
3. Boil for 5 minutes then take the pot off the heat and let the beans sit in the water for 1 hour.
4. After soaking beans, drain and rinse the beans well. Add them to a large pot, cover the beans with several inches of water, and bring everything to a boil.
5. Reduce the heat and simmer until they reach your desired tenderness, 1-1/2 to 2 hours.
6. You can add some salt, but only add salt towards the end of cooking. (Around when 30 minutes left)
______
Title: Basic Dried Beans
Bean: Get beans at The Bean Basket
Time: 8 hours Servings: 5-6 cups
Ingredients:
1 lb. dried beans
10 cups water
Instructions: 
3 WAYS OF SOAKING BEANS:
1. Rinse well.
2. Traditional Slow Soak: In a 5-quart saucepan, cover 1 pound dried beans with 10 cups water. Cover tightly and refrigerate 6-8 hours or overnight. Drain and rinse the beans.
3. Quick Soak: In a 5-quart saucepan, bring 10 cups water to a boil. Add 1 pound dried beans and return to a boil; let boil 2-3 minutes. Cover tightly and set aside at room temperature 1 hour. Drain and rinse the beans.
4. Gas-Free Soak: In a 5-quart saucepan, place 1 pound of beans in 10 or more cups of boiling water; boil for 2-3 minutes, cover and set aside overnight. By morning, 75 to 90 percent of the indigestible sugars will have dissolved into the soaking water. Drain, then rinse the beans thoroughly before cooking them.
COOKING BEANS:
1. Return the soaked, rinsed beans to the 5-quart saucepan. Cover the beans with 3 times their volume of water. Add herbs or spices (not salt), as desired.
2. Bring to a boil; reduce the heat and simmer gently, uncovered, stirring occasionally, until tender (the time will depend on the type of bean, but start checking after 4560 minutes). Do not boil them since this will break the skins.
3. Check the level of the water and add more if it gets low. When the beans are tender, drain and use in recipes; of for later use, immerse them in cold water until cook, then drain well and freeze in 1to 2-cup packages.
______
Title: Pinto Beans with Mexican-Style Seasonings
Bean: Get Pinto Beans from The Bean Basket
Time: 12h 15mins Servings: 8
Ingredients:
1 pound dried pinto beans, rinsed
2 (10 oz) cans diced tomatoes with green chili peppers
1/2 pound bacon, cut into 1/2-inch pieces
1 yellow onion, chopped
1 tablespoon chili powder, or to taste
1 1/2 teaspoons garlic powder, or to taste
1/2 bunch fresh cilantro, chopped
salt to taste
Instructions:
0. (Preparation) Let beans soak overnight.
1. Place pinto beans into a large pot and pour in enough water to cover by 2 to 3 inches.
2. Drain beans, return to pot, and pour in fresh water to cover; add diced tomatoes, bacon, onion, chili powder, cumin, and garlic powder. Bring to a boil, reduce heat to low, and simmer for 3 hours.
3. Stir cilantro and salt into bean mixture; simmer until beans are soft, about 1 more hour.
______
Title: Royal Milk Tea
Bean: Get Tea Leaves from The Bean Basket
Time: N/A Servings: 2 cups
Ingredients:
1 cup warm water
3 heaping teaspoon black tea leaves
1 cup milk
granulated sugar (or honey, optional)
Instructions:
1. In milk pan or small saucepan, add warm water and bring to a boil over medium high heat.
2. When the water is boiling, add tea leaves and reduce the heat and simmer for 1 1/2 to 2 minutes.
3. Add milk and slowly bring just to simmer. Meanwhile keep your serving cup nice and hot with hot water (drain the water before you serve tea).
4. When the tea is about to boil, remove from the heat and pour the tea through a tea strainer or fine mesh strainer and into your serving cup.
5. Serve with sugar or honey and sweeten it to your liking.
______
Title: Matcha Green Tea Latte (Hot or Iced)
Bean: Get Matcha and Sugar from The Bean Basket
Time: 15mins Servings: 1
Ingredients:
1 teaspoon matcha green tea powder
2 teaspoons sugar
3 tablespoons warm water
8.5oz cold milk or 10oz hot milk
Instructions:
1. Spoon the matcha green tea powder and the sugar into a mug or cup.
2. Add the warm water and mix with a spoon or with a whisk until it is a smooth dark green paste to ensure no lumps form.
3. Warm the milk in a small saucepan and pour into the mug until nearly full. Use cold milk for an iced latte.
4. Use a whisk to mix the paste and milk together until smooth and light green in color.
5. In you so wish, you can add a few sprinkles of matcha green tea powder on the top for decoration. Or add ice for an extra cold iced latte.
______
Title: Savory Couscous
Bean: Get Couscous from The Bean Basket
Time: 20mins Servings: 4
Ingredients:
30g butter
1 onion, finely sliced
1-2 garlic clove, crushed
1 cup couscous
2 cups chicken stock
2 tablespoons fresh coriander or parsley, chopped salt and pepper
Instructions:
1. Heat butter in sauce pan (which has a lid).
2. Add chopped onions, stir and allow to cook until soft.
3. Stir in crushed garlic.
4. Add couscous, stir.
5. Add chicken stock, stir and bring to boil.
6. Remove off heat, cover and allow to stand for 5 minutes.
7. Stir coriander or parsley.
8. Add salt and pepper to taste.
9. Serve as a side dish.
______
Title: Homemade Croissants
Bean: Get all-purpose flour, brown sugar from The Bean Basket
Time: 40mins Servings: 16
Ingredients:
1 cup cake flour
3 cups all-purpose flour
1 tablespoon yeast
1/4 cups dark brown sugar
3 1/2 cups 2% milk
2 cups butter refrigerated
1 egg
Instructions:
1. Stir flour into a large bowl. Add brown sugar, salt, and yeast. Then, add milk, and knead with your dough hook for 4 minutes. Place your dough on a floured surface.
2. Grab out parchment paper, and refrigerated butter. Cut butter into strips (into around 12 pieces). Place your second piece of parchment on top and grab your rolling pin. Roll out butter until it resembles a hard slab.
3. Roll dough on a floured surface. Leave a bump of dough in the middle section.
4. Take your slab of butter, and place it on top and in the center of the dough. Fold so that each flap covers the butter completely. Wrap in plastic wrap, and refrigerate for 30 minutes.
5. Remove from refrigerator, and roll dough 18 inches in length, and 11 inches wide. Alternatively, fold together like an envelope, this time, and wrap in plastic once more. Repeat this step, 3 times. (Fold together, wrap and refrigerate)
6. Then toll dough out for the final time, 2 feet long, and 1 foot wide.
7. Cut notches on each side of the dough, every 3 inches. Diagonally drag lines across the dough, as markers. Using a pizza cutter, along diagonal lines and the original lines you “marked”.
8. Make a notch in the middle of the wide end of your dough. Fold, and roll up. Spread
your favorite (Nutella, jam, lemon curd, peanut butter, or anything!) Place on a parchment lined baking sheet.
9. Grab an egg or 2. Beat thoroughly, and then brush croissants, with your egg wash. Bake croissants at 375°F for 20-25 minutes, until golden brown.
______
Title: Coconut Flour Pancakes
Bean: Get Coconut Flour and Baking Soda from The Bean Basket
Time: 20mins Servings: 6-10
Ingredients:
4 eggs, beaten and set aside
1 cup cream or coconut cream
1 1/2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1/2 cup coconut flour
2 tablespoons coconut sugar
1 1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1/4 teaspoon sea salt
Ghee, coconut oil or butter for cooking
Instructions:
1. Mix eggs, cream, vanilla together. Set aside.
2. In a separate bowl, combine coconut flour, coconut sugar, baking soda and sea salt.
3. Slowly mix wet mixture into dry mix.
4. Heat griddle or frying pan to medium heat. Add ghee, coconut oil or butter.
5. Make pancakes using 2 tablespoons – 1/4 cup of batter at a time (smaller pancakes are easier and will be less likely to fall apart when removing). Cook for a few minutes on each side. The pancakes should be slightly brown and dry on both sides.
6. Serve and enjoy!
______
Title: Chocolate Cornstarch Pudding
Bean: Get Cornstarch and White Sugar from The Bean Basket
Time: 40mins Servings: 4
Ingredients:
1/2 cup white sugar
3 tablespoons unsweetened cocoa powder
1/4 cup cornstarch
1/8 teaspoon salt
2 3/4 cups milk
2 tablespoons butter, room temperature
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
Instructions:
1. In a saucepan, stir together sugar, cocoa, cornstarch and salt.
2. Place over medium heat, and stir in milk.
3. Bring to a boil, and cook, stirring constantly, until mixture thickens enough to coat the back of a metal spoon.
4. Remove from heat, and stir in butter and vanilla.
5. Let cook briefly, and serve warm, or chill in refrigerator until servings. 
______
Title: Roasted Pumpkin Seeds
Bean: Get Pumpkin seeds from The Bean Basket!!!
Time: 50mins Servings: 1 cup seeds
Ingredients:
1 1/2 cups pumpkin seeds
2 teaspoons melted butter (olive oil, vegetable oil work well)
salt
(garlic powder)
(cayenne pepper)
(seasoning salt)
(Cajun seasoning)
Instructions:
1. Preheat oven to 300°F.
2. While its OK to leave some strings and pulp on your seeds (it adds flavor) clean off any major chunks.
3. Toss pumpkin seeds in a bowl with the melted butter or oil and seasonings of your choice.
4. Spread pumpkin seeds in a single layer on baking sheet.
5. Bake for about 45 minutes, stirring occasionally, until golden brown.
______
Title: Banana Cake with Chia Seeds
Bean: Get Chia Seeds and Baking Soda from The Bean Basket
Time: 50mins Servings: 4
Ingredients:
2 cups almond flour
1/4 cup tapioca flour
1/4 cup flaxseed meal
1 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 tablespoon chia seeds
1 cup bananas, mashed
2 eggs, room temperature
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1/2 cup coconut milk
1/3 cup honey
4 tablespoons coconut oil
Instructions:
1. In a large bowl, mix the almond flour, tapioca flour, flaxseed meal, baking soda, salt and chia seeds.
2. In a separate bowl, cream together coconut oil (not melted) and honey with a hand mixer.
3. Add in eggs one at a time and continue mixing.
4. Add in mashed banana, vanilla extract and coconut milk, mix until fully incorporated.
5. Pour wet ingredients in with dry ingredients and mix together with hand mixer to form batter.
6. Line an 8x8 – inch baking pan with parchment paper, covering two sides. Leave extra long so you have a handle to pull cake out.
7. Pour the mixture evenly in the pan.
8. Bake at 350°F for 30 minutes or until a toothpick inserted into the center comes out clean.
